um so
when we talk about collaborative
workflows
uh then
that involves
a repository on a git repository hosting
service such as
jin
as we have just created for a very
convenient reason in most cases that is
being an access point for your
collaborator
so
when you have a collaborator that you
want to
work together with
then you can point them to
a dataset
as long as it's not on your private
computer because no one else has access
to your private computer so you put it
on the web on jin on github and you tell
them the url of that data set
and what the collaborator can then do
is issue a data led clone command and
by these means obtain their own clone of
that repository and that enables these
parallel workflows
so um michael and i we're going we're
going to do the collaboration session um
uh yeah interactively so that you can so
that you can follow along
so
let's pretend that michael and i are
going to to collaborate um and uh one
way to
um
to let him know
about um
my data set and also one way to to
collaborate without the necessity of
making the data set public so this is a
a way that you can use in case you you
just want to have a selected
amount of collaborators is by
simply
adding
your collaborator to your data set
specifically
so i want i want you to check out whom
your your part with
and then
um i've written their
usernames into the other pad and then
you each go into your data set into the
settings and then to the tab
collaboration
and then you can
search all registered users on jin for
that
participant so i could for example find
jiolin
as a potential collaborator because
she's registered there but i'm going to
do this collaboration with michael so
i'm typing in his
username and i can then
add him as a new collaborator and he
will
get an invitation so that's that's one
way and
for you to um
to to add collaborators even in private
repositories
i would ask everyone to quickly try
if they can do this
i just got an email from gene
and i also wanted to say that this
way of doing things it's not specific to
jin
github gitlab other repository hosting
services will have a similar workflow
where if you want to
you can add a collaborator that you that
will have
access
to the repository very similar to yours
yep um here is a screenshot on how that
would look like if you were to to do it
on on github it's a similar
it is a similar web interface
if i were to add michael there i would
need to know his github user account
and there i can also give him right
access
to my data set
if michael adds me as well then i can
get also right access to his data set
i also
got an email
that i was added as a collaborator so i
just clicked on it and now i have
write access
to michael's data set
and he has right access to mine and you
should be able to have that for your
assigned collaborator
too okay
so in order to
collaborate
on a dataset that has been shared with
you
um what i will do as someone who can who
is planning to contribute to mikhail's
repository is i'm going to clone it this
is the very first thing that i do i'm
not going to add it as a sibling to my
existing data set um that
would not be
the the right way to go but i will take
mikhail's exact data set
which has uh even though they're similar
in content completely different
um
revision histories
so
um what
uh i think i see a i see i see a quick
question in the chat how do you send the
email for repo collab
um
in your data set
go to settings
and then in the settings go to
collaboration
and then add a new collaborator so i can
also go to if you are registered
leonardo i did
i think that's you
then i can add you
and then you should have also
gotten an email
um
yes
so
with me being the collaborator who
intends to contribute i can copy that
url
it's an ssh url i'm taking the sh url
specifically because i want to push
stuff i don't want to consume
and i'm going to
clone that under a specific name so i
say this is an enhanced dataset
so that i have a new repository
here on my
computer that's called nikhil's dataset
and now i have i have his data set
on my system
you can see
that
i don't have
all of the annexed files cloning was
really fast but there's no none of the
available content is there i can detail
it
um
let's get
any of the images that he has
created
in this case you can see that it was
done from origin
and you can also see or let me
show you with datalet siblings that the
local dataset that i have here
already
knows one sibling and that is the
location where i cloned it from which is
here's dataset by default this
location has the name origin this is a
convention that you will see with any
git repository it's something that is
enshrined in git
something some a name that you will also
see
uh
often because it's it's standard
practice so don't be confused if you
ever see it
is that uh the repository that you are
contributing to that is not yours
is called upstream so many people rename
that sibling from origin to upstream i
can do this too i can say git remote
rename
origin upstream that will give it a new
name
so if i do data like siblings
links then
it's called upstream that's something
that you don't need to do and you can
also rename it back
but
in case you are collaborating
on established projects or you see it in
the wild and stack overflow posts
then
you
are
not
confused
so yesterday we already um briefly
talked about branching workflows and
that's something that is a complexity
but it's something that's also useful to
avoid merge conflicts which i'm going to
talk about a little bit later so one
thing that i would um
ask you to do
is uh to adhere to a stereotypical
branching workflow in the contribution
that you're going to make on your
collaborators
on your collaborators
repository
and
you will be able to run a command that
is called branch to find out which
branch you are currently on in your
clone of your collaborators data set and
that in this case here is called master
so to make my contribution i will create
a new branch and the extras the basics
of branching you will see all of the
relevant
um
branching commands
so what i'm going to do is i'm going to
create a new branch i can do this with
the get branch command and i can choose
the name of my choice um
just for example i'm just going to call
this branch like my first name so that i
can make sure that you know there's
really no other name
um
no other conflicting branch so now that
i've created this branch it exists as
part of all of the branches that i have
in my data set but you can see with this
little indication here that i'm still on
the master branch
so in order to enter that branch
i'm going to check it out and that means
jumping from one branch to the other
branch
so now i am on a branch it's called
adina and i can make any kind of
addition any kind of contribution
that i
might feel like
so what i'm going to do is
there is um
a little suggestion if you scroll
down
in the section on remote collaboration
to just add a couple more photos and i'm
going to
just add
some
um penguin photos to uh mikhail
repository
so i'm going to just also do a data
download url command
and
put
a
another
image
into
this data set
oops
we are logging it
so
i can now
see that there's a different commit on
my branch
and because i have right access to the
data set that i was invited to
collaborate on i can
push those changes
to the remote location
so
one way i can do this is
using datalet push
i'm going to specify
which sibling
to use
and you can see that it has pushed the
new branch that i was currently on
now
what you can see once you have done that
please let me know if i should
stop for a minute or slow down
but you can see
once you have pushed that is that this
repository here
has a new branch the one that i've
actually just pushed
and if i um to check that branch out
that one would have the additional
um
file maybe um
in case you want to maybe
just repeat in case you haven't
done a contribution i could um let you
screen share
okay let's let's do this i'm cloning in
from and it's it's
important for me to clone from the
git at
3.0 from the ssh url that was shown
here i've copied it
i've placed it here
and i'll call it
adenos
dataset
i'm changing into
this data set
and
i am creating a new branch
i'm checking what branches already exist
branch there are two
git
branch
and i'll call it
ms
new feature
and git
checkout or git switch
in this context would do the same
i must set dash
and f
it tells me i switched to branch ms set
i now want to make some changes in this
case it will be
it will be an addition
i want to say that i'll be adding this
file
and my i'll add it through the data
download
url
into
inputs images
underscore zero one dot apex because
it's a
king penguin and
the url
like this i probably don't need
the quotes but
just to be safe
and there is there is a change
if i look
if i use stick to look what happened i
can see there's been things done by john
doe
and the branch master and it's here
and i'm seeing on the top my most recent
change it's by me
and it's by
it's on msf dash and f branch it says
downloads url i forgot to write the
message
data
push
so first of all just to remind myself
well where i can push take a lot of save
links
there's here and there's origin and i
want to push
dash
[Music]
and it says transfer data it says update
availability and it says publish ok
and somewhere in the publish okay it
says that there's a new branch
ms set and f went to
origin ms set nf so let's see uh this is
adenos data set that i was adding to
if i refresh
it has the brand i created
and it in there the latest commit is
done by me
and i can see that inputs images
really does have the image i've added
also if i go back to
my data set the one owned by me
i can also see that there is
a branch that was added by adina
and it has a comet
i can view it
inputs images king.jpg
images
here i'm
setting the branch i'm viewing and there
it is
and in order to
integrate
this commit the addition of this new
file or
the additional change
i can create what is called a pull
request
the name is funny pull request arises
from
the underlying
from the underlying bit commands that
are essentially at work here it is a
request
that comes from my new branch to the
default branch of my collaborators
repository which is in this case the
master branch
to accept the changes from my branch
into
their branch
so if i uh just just as a reminder so i
was here in my collaborators data set
and
um i clicked
wait
on top here
onto the little
thing pro requests
and then the button new pull request
then i can
select
what is called a base branch this is the
branch that i want to propose to
integrate changes into let's master
and the comparison branch that is the
branch from which i want to include new
changes
into the default
once i've
selected those two branches i
see this
the interface that allows me to
create a title
and a quick human readable summary for
my collaborator to better evaluate what
i'm going to do so i can explain myself
i can say hey this is my awesome
contribution this is what i'm doing this
is maybe why i have done something
um and you can also see a summary of
things that will be included in this
full request you can see the commit i
again forgot a
meaningful commit message so it's not so
not so cool um and you can see uh here
that it has added an annexed object
so i'm going to propose a title
at a
king
i think it's a kingfisher penguin right
the king i think these were glenn to pen
greens but let's
jump to penguins
to the data set
this could be interesting
for you in case you like
penguins
and now once i create this pull request
it
increases the little counter of pull
requests on my um collaborators
uh
uh data sets on gin
and i'm stopped sharing to let me show
you how it looks
from his perspective as the person
receiving a pull request receiving a
request to integrate new changes into
its default branch
an email just popped into my inbox
because i have default notifications
from jin but even if it hadn't
if i went to
my data set i would see the number one
pull requests
so
i would go to check this out
and i see there is one pull request open
that has a title that adina just typed
and i know
who made it
and i can go in here
see the description
i can see the list of comments that
belong to this pull request this is a
single comment that downloaded urls
i can see that files that were changed
i can view the file that changed
gene has no problems jumping from
uh
showing showing me the next content
so i can inspect what happened and i can
see if that if that's something i want
to integrate if that's something i want
to
talk about a little bit more
or not at this point i am happy
and i want to make this image part of my
master branch
in this case
i already have
what's needed at
at my
at my disposal i have a button
that
i have information that this pull
request can be merged automatically
which says there are no conflicts so for
example there isn't already a file of
that name or
if it was a text file we didn't change
the same bit of the file
and such
or we don't have
problems matching histories between the
master branch and the
and the adena branch
and i can also make
make a description
give here a description of what i'm
actually
uh
or what i'm doing in this merge commit
we'll see what merged comment means in a
second i can also hear uh
expand the discussion so
so let's say
thanks a lot
i'll
merge it
i'm writing a comment this is here
recorded
and now i can make it part of the master
branch do i need to write the
description myself or
[Music]
you don't need to it will it will create
an automatic message
you can
okay so uh
add an
image
by
merging and i'm clicking the green
inviting button merge pull request
what happens here the pull request
status uh has been changed merged i also
have a button to delete this branch i'll
keep it
as it is but
in a way it has served its purpose
and if i go back to the files preview
i can see that in the inputs images even
when i'm looking at the branch master
i have the
new
file
but what's uh
worth seeing is that if i go to comments
here
i can see the history goes as follows
going from the bottom this is this is me
building up the data set then there is
the commit that was proposed by adina
that added the file and there is one
more commit done by me that says merge
branch adena of ms that my data set into
master
so
here this single commit means is all
comments that were on the
on the
feature branch so to speak
and
me
integrating it with the with the master
branch adds another commit on top
it could for example also resolve any
conflicts that
that
that arised
in this case it just says yes this was
added here so the one thing that we have
achieved now
is
um
we
we have
had a
change from our collaborators um
repositories and mikhail added a local
commit or i added a local commit in this
case i'm the collaborator i added the
commit and i created this pull request
that
was accepted and thus merged into the
upstream's repository the repository on
jin
main
development history the master branch
but the person that i'm collaborating
with still has a local data set
that does not yet automatically have
this edition
in their data set so while the sibling
data set on gin
has
progressed its master branch a little
bit
this
update of the sibling has not yet been
integrated into mikhail's local
repository
and for him to bring his local
repository his local data set
up to date with
the
sibling engine
he needs to
[Music]
update
this
and there are several ways to do it and
on the slide this is the just git
command to do it but you can also do it
with data that and um maybe here you
would
be up for
sharing that okay so going back to
my site
i have
with
my
okay going back to my side i have
already handled the gene
so the pull request is merged the
comments showing the history and the
files are where they should be
but if i go back to my data set
on on the hubs of my local data set
my data set
uh
a quick look at tick shows me that
i'm
a bit behind at this point
and i want to
bring my copy in sync with the jin
sibling
so
[Music]
the sibling is called jin
so i want to
date a lot update
and then i need to say where i'm
updating from so it's dash s
as for sibling
gene
and there's also a parameter called how
and i say merge and this tells
data lot to use some strategy in case
that
integrating things
turns out to be a bit more complex
uh the merge is can be seen as the
default option here but i'll be explicit
about it
so data.update
dash as din
merge
and it says fetching updates it says
doing things most importantly it says
update okay
if i go to tick to see what has changed
i can see there's a
commit by john doe
that says
download urls
i can also see this little
detour here so there's a graphical
history of my data set that it got
branched at this point the branch
has so one commit by tondo
and this commit has been merged into
the main branch by myself
and just to
just to make sure everything's
fine i can use my file browser
to see that
well
the
the file does not open
the pool was quick i know that i know
the file is there
but to have it have the file content
locally
i can do datalot
get inputs images
king.jpg
now it's getting the file content and
now it's able to
open
so
i have everything
locally both the history the
the file information and the file
content as well
so there was a very valid question
yesterday
on what would happen if i were to
um propose a change or to make a change
that would conflict
with something that is already a part
of the branch that i want to integrate
it the notes two contributors
have made in addition to the very same
line of text in a
in a text file
so what
this is called
is a merge conflict
and if i would do a data led update or a
pull of the branch that contains the
conflicting change
then i would see
this message here
that boils down to
i have a merge conflict in the following
files the automatic merge
failed so
the pull request
that mikhail just merged would not
display the message can be merged
automatically but would it would say if
you do it in the web interface oh god i
have i have a problem i have a conflict
you need to fix those conflicts and then
you need to commit whatever is done this
would for example happen if mikhail were
to add a king jpeg to his local
repository
before running data led update to pull
the change of me adding the king jpeg to
his repository upstream that would cause
a conflict
and emerge conflict is git's way of
saying
i don't know which of the two changes i
have to integrate here is the one i need
to keep
there are two humans involved here each
of them made a change each of them
probably thought that change is
worthwhile and i'm just a machine i
don't know what to do please help me so
uh merge conflict sounds always a little
bit scary but it's something that um is
actually resolved
uh
fairly occasional cases the one and uh
really important
command that you can rely
on to help you
when you
get stuck in a merge conflict is called
get status you get status is a command
that you already
see me use i i use it pretty frequently
it's also in this case
git state is not data let's status that
um that gives you the tips
um but it is essentially a guide um to
resolve the match conflict and
uh you just need to read the contents of
the um
status report that it gives you in order
to find out what to do next so when you
run git status in your merge conflict
then it will say you have unmerged paths
which translates to help me i'm in
emerge conflict
and then it will tell you a really
important
command which is get merged
abort
which is the emergency abort method to
if you really don't know what to do
to just
drop everything and go back to before
the match so that you know you're safe
yes
you can you can still get a coffee uh
before that merge conflicts
um the
information on um use get add file to
mark resolution is a hint on what your
next step
is to resolve the merge conflict and the
uh modification here so uh it is called
both modified because though this is a
file that was modified by both
collaborators on both branches
that is an indication of which files to
look at
when you
the next thing that you do when you are
in the merge conflict you check out the
file that
contains
the
conflicting changes you can do this in
an editor of your choice um you can use
a tool like git diff that shows you in
the case of content that is committed to
get the exact difference that uh exists
and then it looks a little bit weird
because git adds markup to guide you
through the
um through the conflict and where it it
has arisen
so there are two um different markups
one is this uh this arrow here
until the equal signs and the other one
is the equal signs until this other
error here so we have two
different
parts of this file this is the one part
and this is the other part
each of those parts
belongs to one of the changes so what
you can see here is
that the commit with this identifier
here
has
made
the change
fixed path so the literal addition to
this toy example file
pre-progress age and
this identifier here had that means the
most recent commit of yourself the one
who's currently trying to resolve the
merge conflict
is
that there's this content here in the
very same place that your collaborator
wanted to
add this line to
and your
um
obligation as the sentient human in this
conflict for the machine
is to decide
which
of the modifications if any to keep and
you are completely free in what you are
going to do next so what you could do is
you can delete all of the contents of
the file that would be fine with git it
would just say okay all right i'm going
to commit it you can also
remove the edition that um your
collaborator made that commit you can
say oh no that's that's completely
it's no
we don't want to keep this or you can
say hey that that is actually the right
thing to do i'm going to remove
some parameter tweaks that that i made
instead
or you can keep both of them
so
it obviously depends a little bit on the
file that you're dealing with
but
you can essentially
just rearrange the contents in the way
that you think this file should look
like and if it's your file that the
merge conflict is in you also know you
know
what the content should should kind of
be if it's if it's a python script if
it's a matlab script if it's in our
script then you know how a function
needs to be written so you you can kind
of judge
um what needs to be done
and once
you have
decided on what to keep
you
delete
or keep whatever you want and then you
remove this markup you remove the line
that starts with those arrows that you
remove the line that starts with these
arrows and the line that is the equal
sign line
and
then you run what git status i told you
before get add and then git commit and
then it will create the merge commit
that has been created for example when
you proposed
a pr and that pr was merged
um
so that's it that was a very quick
rundown on what the merged conflict was
and how to resolve it it's not so
um collaborative it's not so hands-on
but if you ever come
into the into the position of needing to
resolve the much conflict then i hope
that has given you kind of an idea of
what what is needed to be done